VS code (#14)
Public-Health-Scotland/python-training: intro.Rmd

> ## IDE

Reviewer: Not necessarily as part of this PR, but as this section is expanding, an introduction to IDEs may be required (not everyone is familiar with the acronym) and help understand the purpose of the following sections.

### VS Code

Visual Studio Code is an open-source code editor that supports multiple programming languages including Python and R and is highly customisable with extensions. For the purposes of this course we will focus on python. 

> **Please note this is only a brief introduction on VS Code. For detailed instructions on how to set up VS code and use Python in Posit Workbench please see [VS Code Setup instructions](https://github.com/Public-Health-Scotland/vscode_prep). These instructions include setting up extensions, creating environments, installing packages, and using version control. Please follow these instructions if it is your first time using VS code on Posit Workbench.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Please note this is only a brief introduction on VS Code. For detailed instructions on how to set up VS Code and use Python in Posit Workbench please see [VS Code Setup instructions](https://github.com/Public-Health-Scotland/vscode_prep). These instructions include setting up extensions, creating environments, installing packages, and using version control. Please follow these instructions if it is your first time using VS Code on Posit Workbench.**
```

#### Getting Started

> We can access VS Code on [Posit Workbench](https://pwb-prod.publichealthscotland.org/) the same way we access R studio. After signing in, click on New Session and a diaglog box will pop up. Click on VS code from the options at the start, select your memory requirements, and then Start Session. 

Reviewer: This might work well as a numbered list, breaking it up for users to follow.

> We can access VS Code on [Posit Workbench](https://pwb-prod.publichealthscotland.org/) the same way we access R studio. After signing in, click on New Session and a diaglog box will pop up. Click on VS code from the options at the start, select your memory requirements, and then Start Session. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We can access VS Code on [Posit Workbench](https://pwb-prod.publichealthscotland.org/) the same way we access RStudio. After signing in, click on 'New Session' and a dialog box will pop up. Click on 'VS Code' from the options at the start, select your memory requirements, and then 'Start Session'. 
```

```{r vscode, fig.align='center', out.width="60%"}
knitr::include_graphics("images/vs-code.png")
```
</br>

> 

Reviewer: Each section below introduces an element of the interface in isolation, do you think an overview here would help users get familiar with the IDE at the top level (e.g. sidebar(s), explorer, viewer, terminal) and then the following sections build on that?

#### Opening files and folders

> Once your session opens you can go ahead and open the folder by either clicking on the folder in the explorer pain or using the keyboard shortcut (`Ctrl` + `O`). You can create a new file by pressing the 'New File...' button shown in the image.

Reviewer 2: Typo for "explorer pane"?

> Once your session opens you can go ahead and open the folder by either clicking open folder in the explorer pain or using the keyboard shortcut (Ctrl+ O). You can create a new file by pressing the following button shown in the image. Python files are .py files.

Reviewer: This talks about opening "the folder" but a specific project or directory has been mentioned. It would be useful to explain what the 'Explorer' is, what it shows as default, and note if an existing project exists how to find it/how to create a new project.

> Once your session opens you can go ahead and open the folder by either clicking open folder in the explorer pain or using the keyboard shortcut (Ctrl+ O). You can create a new file by pressing the following button shown in the image. Python files are .py files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once your session opens you can go ahead and open the folder by either clicking on the folder in the explorer pain or using the keyboard shortcut (`Ctrl` + `O`). You can create a new file by pressing the 'New File...' button shown in the image.
```

```{r vscodefile, fig.align='center', out.width="60%"}
knitr::include_graphics("images/vs-code-file.png")
```
</br>

> #### Running code

Reviewer: - The split between 'running entire scripts' and 'snippets interactively' is useful, would it be better to have these as a L5 heading, rather than numbered list?
- As there are different approaches within each, splitting them up with an unordered list or something else to help the user understand where one approach ends and maybe try them interactively using this as a reference? 
- The mention of Jupyter Notebooks should maybe be it's own section? 
- Is it worth adding in how to use Python in the terminal/console (e.g. interactively running commands rather than from a script?)

> There are several ways to run code in VS code:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are several ways to run code in VS Code:
```

**1. Running an entire script**

> To execute the full script you can type the following into the terminal and press enter. The easiest way to open a new terminal is the keyboard shortcut (`Ctrl` + `Shift` + `C`).

Reviewer 2: Shall we add a screenshot of opening a new terminal?

> To execute the full script you can type the following into the terminal and press enter. The easiest way to open a new terminal is the keyboard shortcut (Ctrl + Shift + C).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To execute the full script you can type the following into the terminal and press enter. The easiest way to open a new terminal is the keyboard shortcut (`Ctrl` + `Shift` + `C`).
```

```{python terminal, eval = FALSE, echo = TRUE}
python your_file_name.py
```

> Another way to run the whole script is to use the run button at the top of the editor. This is essentially the equivalent of pressing source to run a script in R studio.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Another way to run the whole script is to use the run button at the top of the editor. This is essentially the equivalent of pressing source to run a script in RStudio.
```

> **2. Running Code Snippets Interactively**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**2. Running code snippets interactively**
```

> If you wish to run snippets of your code or run it line by line you can do this using an interactive notebook. By pressing Shift + Enter on a line of code it should open an interactive window as shown below. You can also highlight sections of code and press Shift + Enter. This is very similar to running code in R studio by pressing ctrl + enter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you wish to run snippets of your code or run it line by line you can do this using an interactive notebook. By pressing `Shift` + `Enter` on a line of code it should open an interactive window as shown below. You can also highlight sections of code and press `Shift` + `Enter`. This is very similar to running code in RStudio by pressing `Ctrl` + `Enter`.
```

```{r vscodeinteractive, fig.align='center',out.width="100%"}
knitr::include_graphics("images/vs-code-interactive.png")
```

> You can also use Jupyter Notebooks by creating a .ipynb file. Each cell can be executed individually using Shift + Enter or by pressing the run button. This allows you to create code or markdown snippets. This will look like the following.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also use Jupyter Notebooks by creating a .ipynb file. Each cell can be executed individually using `Shift` + `Enter` or by pressing the run button. This allows you to create code or markdown snippets. This will look like the following.
```

> You can also use Jupyter Notebooks by creating a .ipynb file. Each cell can be executed individually using `Shift` + `Enter` or by pressing the run button. This allows you to create code or markdown snippets. This will look like the following.

Reviewer 2: We can delete this Jupyter Notebook paragraph as I got all those contents in the next section on Jupyter Notebook.

```{r vscodenotebook, fig.align='center',out.width="100%"}
knitr::include_graphics("images/vs-code-notebook.png")
```

> Note that running code interactively does require certain extensions to be installed. 

Reviewer: Courses are used interactively and should build up knowledge as users step through. However, if things don't work, they could spend time trying to debug issues or get frustrated / give up when something doesn't work. If there is setup/caveats, they therefore need to be up front. In this case, the use of extensions should be noted as part of the description of VS Code, and where required noted to users before the instructions.

> Note that running code interactively does require certain extensions to be installed. 

Reviewer 2: Do we have any examples of certain extensions? As users may not know what they are.
